Thanks so much for having me.
Um my name is Philip Johnston and I'm
the co-founder and CEO of Star Cloud and
just like the previous company we have
also been abusing GPUs in ways they were
not designed for.
>> [laughter]
>> Um so yeah, we're building data centers
in space um mainly for the energy that
we can draw and I will spend the next 5
minutes um explaining why it will soon
make much more sense to build data
centers in space than it does to build
them on Earth and then I'll take 5
minutes for questions. So please um
start thinking of some questions. Before
I do that though, I want to show a quick
video which is actually the deployment
of Star Cloud 1 um
and this was it had five in video GPUs
on it but the most significant was the
in video H100 chip and uh I'll just
quickly play the video first.
Star Cloud 1 separation confirmed.
So
we don't you don't normally get as great
a deployment video by the way. Half the
time they'd like deploy it into the
shadow. [laughter]
Um so the reason this was so significant
is until this point many people thought
you actually couldn't run state of the
art terrestrial data center grade GPUs
in space for two main reasons. One is
the thermal dissipation. So they they're
very power dense. They produce a lot of
heat and the second is the radiation
tolerance. So people thought that um you
would have bit flips at too high rate
and so by um with this chip we were the
first to train a model in space. We
actually trained nano GPT from Andrej
Karpathy um and then we also uh
were the first to run a version of
Gemini, the first to do high powered
inference on uh SAR data. So other
satellite data.
Um and so it was a very significant step
in proving that we can actually run the
state of the art terrestrially.
Um but the um
yeah, I think maybe to make the case for
why it will soon make more sense in
terms of energy cost, I'd like to
quickly draw a comparison with uh
with a solar project on Earth since
solar is the cheapest form of energy
that we have on Earth. So if you want to
build a solar project to power a new
data center,
you have three main costs. So the first
is the cost of permitted land and in
fact in North America that's actually
the largest cost or can be for most new
solar projects.
The second is the cost of battery
storage and backup power because we're
only you know, we only have peak power
for about 4 hours of the day. So we need
to charge those batteries to use at
night. And then the last is the cost of
the solar cells themselves.
So how does that compare to building a
similarly sized solar project in space?
Well, in space number one we don't need
to pay for permitted land. So your
biggest cost is gone. You don't need to
pay for battery storage and backup power
because we're 24/7 in the sun. So your
second biggest cost is gone. And then
you need eight times less solar cells
cuz 1 square meter of solar panel in
space produces eight times the energy of
1 square meter of solar panel on Earth.
So the only additional cost or the main
additional cost we have in space is the
launch cost.
>> [snorts]
>> And so you can clearly see there's a
break even point where the launch cost
comes below the cost of permitted land,
batteries and solar and we see that
break even cost to be around $500 a
kilo. So about a 10x reduction from
where we are today. But that's well
within range of the launch vehicles that
are coming online. So for comparison,
Starship is designed to produce launch
cost of around 10 to $20 a kilo.
Um
And so I think I'll just finish by
playing you a uh one final concept video
and this shows uh a constellation that
we're building now. So we've just filed
with the SEC for a constellation of
88,000 satellites. Each one's about 200
kilowatts. It will enable us to deploy
on the order of 20 gigawatts of new
compute capacity. Really just scratching
the surface um with this new
constellation.
Um and it will enable it's basically for
all inference workloads. And so this
could be and yeah, maybe I'll I'll start
the video and you can
get a sense of it.
So in this case it's to generate a 3D
video but it could also be for back
office business processing agents, code
generation agents.
Um they will come up via optical link to
this constellation in this dawn dusk sun
synchronous orbit. Means it's always in
the sun. 24/7 power. Sub 50 millisecond
latency to anywhere on Earth.
Um all optically linked.
>> [snorts]
>> And this really is the start of the
largest infrastructure project ever. I
mean we're talking about just for this
constellation of 88,000 we're talking
about a hundred billion dollars of capex
spend which is actually much lower than
it would cost to do to do terrestrially.
Um and uh not only is it the start of
the largest infrastructure project, it's
also in my opinion the start of a
Kardashev type two uh Dyson sphere type
civilization and potentially Kardashev
type three.
Um I will finish there and we have about
4 minutes for questions. So any
questions? Yeah, we'll start at the
front.
Yeah.
Uh the intuition on the availability
solar is obvious. Um can you just give
us the napkin math on the the radiator
equation again? So like dissipating heat
for anyone who's thought about it, it
always feels hard. And then and also
please say something about the
availability of dawn dusk. That orbit is
finite, right? Yes. Yeah. Yeah.
Um it's a great question. So because
space is a vacuum, it's actually much
harder you know, space is only 3°
Kelvin. So very low ambient temperature.
But because it's a vacuum um as you
rightly point out, it's actually quite
difficult to dissipate that heat and
what it requires is a large surface area
so that you can emit that in infrared.
So everything that's warm is glowing in
in infrared all the time. If you had an
infrared camera on my face, you'd see
that I'm glowing. Um and so the rough
math on these surface area is you would
your solar panels generate around 200
watts per square meter and the radiator
if you keep it around 50° C
uh will dissipate around 800 watts per
square meter. So what that means is if
you've got a um
you need about a quarter again the
surface area in radiator than you have
on um on solar panel. So if you had a
400 square meter solar panel, you'd need
an additional 100 square meters of
radiator to dissipate that heat. Um
there's a very nice equation called the
Stefan-Boltzmann equation which
basically says that the rate that the
the thermal dissipation is proportional
to the to the fourth power of the
temperature. So if you can jack up that
temperature instead of being 50° to 80°,
which is like a 10% increase in Kelvin,
then you you can actually half the
surface area of your radiator or close
to half the surface area of radiator.
And so that's what we're working on with
Nvidia now. If anybody was at GTC,
you'll have seen Jensen walk out to this
um to the deployment video of Star Cloud
1 and then he spent uh 5 minutes talking
about the um the new space Ruben 1 chip
that we're working on and it's designed
to run at a hotter temperature without
having a a higher failure rate. And the
reason you want it to run at a hotter
temperature is so that you can lower the
mass on the radiator.
Great question then. Yeah. Yeah. All
right. Kessler syndrome, the favorite
thing, right? Now we're going to get
more satellites there yet more in uh
Kessler orbits cuz everyone will want
What happens then? Yeah, it's a great
question and it's also related to the
question um asked about the space in
space.
Um
I think so it's something we take
incredibly seriously. You know,
everybody needs to be a responsible user
of space. We do and and everybody else.
We're you know, keen keen to make sure
that space is usable forever. Um
For the first few satellites, so you can
solve it in a few ways. If you fly at a
relatively low altitude, the chance of a
Kessler type effect is is extremely low.
So um our first satellite we're flying
around 400 km altitude. That means that
it will naturally deorbit within a few
months. And so if you were to have a
collision at that altitude, by the time
it gets around to the next orbit, you're
already a a few hundred meters below
where you had the collision and the
chance yeah, chance of um Kessler is
very very low. Um
Yeah, as you fly higher, it's actually
extremely unpopulated those high orbits
because then you start to edge into the
the Van Allen radiation belt. Um but I
mean we actually have a pretty
good case study for this and that is um
SpaceX is now operating around 10,000
satellites without ever having a single
collision um in in low Earth orbit. And
the the way that you do that is by
having ex-pretty sophisticated collision
avoidance. Um
Uh the the the the other reason I think
people think this is more of an issue
than it
than it actually is and and the reason
that space is so much larger than it
looks is when you see a map of all of
those satellites, each dot on those maps
is about the width of California and
you're representing something that might
be this wide by something the width of
California. And so people can often
think that space is very congested. It's
actually
it you you we can easily fit on the
order of uh terawatts of compute in just
this dawn dusk sun synchronous orbit
without having
um
you know, huge problems with collision
avoidance.
Any other questions? Yeah.
Uh
is radiation like bit flipping, is that
something you actually have to think
about or consider? How does that impact
stuff?
Yes, it is something I have to think
about. Um
so the way that we're solving it is just
an enormous amount of ground testing. So
we've done uh four rounds of testing at
the cyclotron down in Knoxville. Um it's
a high velocity proton particle
accelerator.
Um and we take all of that telemetry and
then that informs our choice on
shielding. And then for heavy ions we
have to go to the Brookhaven National
Lab and we basically run all the chips
through um
through the the space environment. So if
over 24 hour period, you can put it
through 5 years worth of radiation dose
um and then we take all that data and we
then use that to inform shielding but
also software development choices for
it.
Yeah.
Yeah. Do you do contiguous compute or
are you doing something else?
Uh this is almost exclusively I mean
actually for the foreseeable future will
just be for inference. Um and the reason
the reason it's for inference is number
one, inference is going to be like 99%
of the compute market very soon anyway.
So even if we you know, we wouldn't want
to write be running a large training set
um
well, running large training sets will
be a very small percentage of the total
in 5 to 10 year time of AI workloads.
But secondly, it's very hard. We would
need a
yeah, we We need to dock together a
large 5 gigawatt um kind of structure.
The I actually have a video of that
here, but I won't waste everyone's time
with it.
>> [laughter]
>> Unless [snorts] somebody wants to see a
video of a 5 gigawatt data center in
space. Do you guys want to see that? All
right.
>> [laughter]
>> We we made this video cuz we didn't want
people to be like, "Oh, you could never
train a model in space." So, this is
what a 5 gigawatt 4 km by 4 km structure
in space would look like.
So, this would be a Starship launch
vehicle with a 40 megawatt is what you
can fit per Starship launch vehicle.
Which will connect to a central spine.
Which is connected to this enormous
solar panel. On the back there, we have
a 1 km by 4 km radiator.
Yeah, that that that's how you would
train a large model, but as I say, it'll
probably be at least 15 years before we
get to anything
like that.
One more I think we're Okay, 40 seconds.
Or do we
Okay. Oh, sorry.
Um by when do you think the majority of
the data center will be in the space?
Oh, that's a great question. And I
actually wanted to ask all of you. Let's
run a poll. So, the
the question I want to ask is when do
you think it will be cheaper to run
compute in space for anybody? It could
be for Space X or for us. And the four
answers will be
the next 5 years it will be cheaper, in
5 to 10 years it will be cheaper,
sometime after 10 years, or never. Okay,
so who thinks within 5 years it will be
cheaper to run compute in space than
terrestrially?
Interesting. Who thinks 5 to 10 years?
Who thinks beyond 10 years?
And who thinks never?
Brave.
Okay, that's that's an interesting for
me to see.
Um I don't Yeah, I think that's we are
out of time, so I will leave it there.
Thank you very much for your time.
>> [applause]